Because our demo application has three ways to authenticate,
form login, OAuth2 for Facebook, and OpenID Connect for Google,
the getPrincipal will return three different types of objects.
For form login it will be the type UserDetails.
For OAuth2, DefaultOAuth2User.
And for OpenID Connect, DefaultOidcUser.
Now the OpenID Connect user extends the DefaultOAuth2User class and
provides additional accesses like the idToken,
which makes sense as the specification of OpenID
Connect is built on top of OAuth.
This can, however, make things difficult in your code.
If we look at the authentication success handler,
you can see the messy code,
mainly because Facebook decided it wanted to be different
and not be an OpenID Connect provider,
which can cause your code to turn into a lot of messy if
statements for each non- OpenID Connect provider.
Imagine you wanted to get the name of user in one of our controllers.
Now previously when the application just had form login,
the UserDetailsService would extract the principal data from the database,
create a user object of type MFAUser, return it to the authentication provider,
which would then package it up into an authentication object.
So the principal was always of type MFAUser.
Hence in our controller,
we could simply use the @AuthenticationPrincipal annotation and
Spring would conveniently resolve it for us.
Basically, it would be the equivalent of this.
However, now if the user logs in with OAuth, this will simply return null.
Let's say we wanted to get the name of the principal.
We would need to do something like this.
Yeah.
First, we would check if the principal is of type MFAUser and extract the name.
Next, we can assume they logged in via OAuth.
We need to check if they are an OpenID Connect provider.
If they are, great.
We can use the standard claim names to get the first and last name.
If not,
then we would need to check which provider they are and surgically
extract the attributes based on the provider specification.
There has to be a better way. Next, we will look at how we can clean this up.